Hello everyone and welcome to this
scripting tutorial for After
Effects 2022. Every year there are
updates to the
scripting environment, so I'll be updating this video
, as the previous one was about
7 years old and the resources and
content are no longer entirely applicable
.  So today I'll show you
what scripting for After Effects is
and what you can do with it.  We will create
a simple interface with
basic functions and user elements to
get you started in scripting, and I
will show you all the resources and
materials in case you want to learn more
on your own.  Before we begin,
I want to remind you: subscribe below
and activate the bell to receive
notifications of new videos that
we upload twice a week.  And in the
description you can find the
code for this script, try it
yourself and read all the
details in the GitHub link.
Follow us there for
code updates and in the description follow us
on Instagram for other live updates
.  If you're not already a member of
our Discord server, you can
join to get help with scripts,
extensions, plugins, emotes,
suggest tutorial ideas, hang out
with our awesome members, and
much more.  And if you'd like to support us
financially on YouTube and get
perks like Discord status,
lots of cool emojis, and
early access to code in
live streams, you can become a member,
premium sponsor, or VIP.  The link
is in the description.
You can also check out the link to Adobe
Exchange and AE Scripts to support us
there and see some interesting products.
So, what is scripting?    You
've probably heard of
it, and if you're a complete beginner, you'll find
this very helpful.
Scripting is something that allows them to
automate tasks that would normally
take a long time or that they would have to
do manually repeatedly.  For
example, if they had to double-
click on something, import material, and
repeat that 500 times, it would be very
tedious or take up a lot of their time.
With scripting, they could automate
such a simple task in just a few
seconds and with a single click.  There
are also many other time-saving features
, and you can tie it all together with an
interface like this, which lets you
input files, text, use
sliders, and connect all sorts of
values ​​programmatically,
basically.  If you don't know how to program,
this tutorial will still be useful, but
there will be a small
learning curve to familiarize yourself with the
format and the way
things appear.  As I said, you can run
repetitive operations as many times
as you want instantly, from
importing files and rendering, to
adding effects, adjusting things, adding
keyframes and expressions.  You can
adjust any of the properties,
compositions, layers, effects,
expressions, keyframes, and often
menu items with the
scripting API.  So, how are
scripts actually written?
Technically, you could write a
script in Notepad or
TextEdit if you wanted, but there are
programs made specifically for
programming that make things much easier
and help you a lot.  The first is
called Adobe ExtendScript, which is no longer
compatible with Mac because it is a
32-bit application and these have been
completely removed in the
most recent Mac operating systems.
ExtendScript still works on
older versions of Mac and
most current versions of Windows
.  You can download it from this
link, or you can also download it from
the Creative Cloud application if
you enable legacy applications.
Some of the reasons to use
ExtendScript are that it allows you to
interact and connect directly to
your program;  So, for example, you can
connect to After Effects and run
your script instantly without having to go
to File, Scripts, Run
Script File, choose your file, find
errors, save it, and start all over again.
It's a quick and convenient way to
connect to any program and
run your script, and it also
features the "Object Model Viewer", which
contains a complete list of all
the programs you can
connect to and all the types of code
and interfaces you can create.  This may
be a little advanced, but it basically
contains all the
learning material you could possibly need.
However, the disadvantages are that it's
becoming obsolete because it's no longer
compatible with
newer operating systems, especially
on Mac, and it's not really
up-to-date.  This was done a long time ago
and has no
additional extensions.  There isn't much control over
the interface and color, which
leads us to the next option, which is
Visual Studio Code.  That's what
most people use nowadays,
because there are extensions created to make
script development and execution much easier.  Visual Studio
Code is the most common nowadays, and
there are two extensions I recommend using
: Adobe's ExtendScript Debugger.  This
is basically the base extension
you'll need, and it's this one right here.  It
offers full support for writing
scripts, connecting them to programs,
debugging them, and more, all within
ExtendScript and directly in
Visual Studio Code.  The only thing it doesn't
support is the Object Model Viewer, which I
talked about here, which is quite useful
and reveals parts of the
scripting guide that don't appear in
online guides.  It's also missing a couple
of things, such as features,
autocomplete, and profile support.
But, in general, it's perfectly
functional for someone who writes
scripts.  The other extension I
recommend is Adobe Script Runner by
Render Tom.  This requires that you have
the ExtendScript Debugger extension installed
.  It allows you to have a script
ready, press F1 and choose, for
example, Adobe After Effects or
any program in which you want to
run it immediately.  If you use
ExtendScript Debugger, you need to set up
a debug file and other things
, which allows you to use
breakpoints;  These are the two
main extensions you'll want to
use.  Primarily Adobe Script
Runner if you want to run things
quickly.  In today's video I'll be using
Adobe Script Runner, but remember that
you'll also need to have
the other extension installed to get
scripting support.  Once
that step is completed and the editor has been chosen,
we need to load a guide.  The
first guide is the link here that will
take us to ae-scripting.  The first
guide here is
AE's own scripting guide.  There is
no
reference to AE in the ExtendScript object model viewer.  All the
AE scripting reference you'll need is
in this document.  If you want to
convert it to PDF instead of
HTML format, you can do that too.
Basically, here's everything you'll
need to know.  It has all
types of elements, from the
application to the project,
compositions, layers, effects,
properties, and keyframes.
Everything you need to know is in
this guide, and you'll definitely want to
familiarize yourself with it, getting
comfortable typing different things into
the search bar to
quickly find functions or see what
properties you need to add a
composition and much more.  The other
scripting guide I'd
like to refer to is the
UI guide, which covers much of the
interface customization,
basic elements, event listeners, and
all that.  You can see that it
refers to the object model viewer
quite often, since that's also where
many
of the interface elements are referenced.
Basically, it tells you all the
different things inside, for example, a
button.  You can check
a button's indentation, justification,
minimum size, text inside it
, and size.  So this is
basically to define and show you
all kinds of things, how to make
each of the possible interface elements
for a script, and of course
, we'll soon create our own
interface in this tutorial.  So, let's move
on and begin with the
scripting part itself.  Let's
write our first piece of
code and create a new script
from scratch here in Visual Studio.
We'll start by creating the interface for
our script, which, if we look back
here, has some
sample text, two sample buttons, a
drop-down menu, a panel with a
radio option, a
check box, and a slider.  These
will have functionality soon,
but for now, let's learn about
the user interface or UI and the two
different types.  There are
floating and dockable type interfaces.
Floating-point types are just like that.  They float
around.  We can't put them inside
the different windows here in
After Effects, but if you have a
dockable script, they will appear here under
window.  And, for example, I could say
that this advanced color scheme script
, I can dock it, resize it,
and put it inside my own
After Effects panel.  So,
there are the floating ones that basically
sit on top of everything, and the dockable ones
that stick to the interface just like that.
So you have those two options.  For
the purposes of this tutorial, I'll just
make a floating script to
keep it basic, and I have other
tutorials on the channel about how to
create other interfaces as well.
So, I'll start by creating a
new file in Visual Studio Code, and this
will be my script.  For now, it's
not actually recognizing that this is a
JSX file, and I should mention that's
the format we're going to be using.  So I'll just
call it
tutorial.jsx.  And as soon as JSX calls it,
this little icon will appear here.
This is actually the React icon
for React JS, because React JS also
uses JSX files.  This is just one
example or previous use of JSX.  So
the first thing we want to do when creating
an interface is to create a window.
Whenever you want to
save something in programming, you can store it in a
variable.  Mathematically this could be
represented as X, Y, Z,
anything, but we can use words, for
example, window.  That's a
word that means window in
English.  Let's set our
window variable.  We're basically going to create
a placeholder
called window and save something in it.
To create a new window, we will say
new window.  And that has to be in
capital letters.  And then, in these
parentheses, we will add arguments that
define the properties of our
window.  What type of window is it
? Is it a palette window, a
floating window? Does it have a
specific name we want to give it?  So
the first argument we'll give you
is palette.  This basically defines it
as a floating window.  Next, let's
give it a name.  We'll simply say
my window.  And then, the third argument
is mandatory.  We're going to separate
our arguments with commas, and I'm
briefly going over
basic programming terminology for
beginners, but basically just
try to follow along.  You must separate each
of these arguments with a comma.
This defines what type of window
we want, the name of the window, and
this third one basically defines what
the size property is.  If we say
undefined, the system will determine it
for us.  Then, if we want to
show our window,
we simply use window.show.  And I receive some
autocorrect.  window.show.  And this
should show it on our screen.
What I also want to do is say
window.center.  Autocorrect again
.  And if we had a
different variable name like my window,
we would just need to update this
to make sure it refers to
this window.  So let's run
this.  What we're going to do is press
F1 because I'm using
Render Tom's Adobe Script Runner and I'm going to
select Adobe After Effects,
which will load my window in After
Effects.  You can see that it's tiny,
but that's because we haven't loaded anything
yet.  So, first let's
set our
window orientation.  Orientation basically
means, where will the
elements go? Will the elements go from
top to bottom or from left to
right?  The way we configure
that is by taking the element from our
window and writing point orientation.
We are changing the
orientation property and we are going to set it
as a string, which is basically
text in quotes, and we will write
column.  That will mean that all the
elements within our window
will go from top to bottom.  You can see
that this appears crossed out.  It thinks it's
basically not doing anything,
but it thinks it's a React, not an
Adobe Script JavaScript, so
ignore this.  This will apply
anyway, and we'll move it to a
column.  Now, let's add some "
static text," as it's called, to
have some basic text in our
window.  I'm going to write var text and
we'll set this
placeholder variable called text to be
equal to a new text.  But
instead of saying "new text" as we
did with the window,
we're just going to add a property to our
window.  That means we'll type
my window and add something.  Not an
event detector, we're just going to
add something.  This will take three
arguments.  The first question is, what are we going
to add?  If you wanted to add a
button, you could type button.  If
you want to add static text, in this case,
let's add static text.
The second argument is undefined,
just like above in the window.  We don't
want to define the sizes or
limits of our element here.
We want the script to
automatically decide those values ​​to
match our text.  And the
third argument is a string with the
text we want it to say.  So
we can simply put "this is my
text".  Now, if we save this,
press F1 and run it in After
Effects, you'll see that we now have my
window and this is my text.  If we
simply duplicate this and create two
versions, even though the
variable names are the same, we can
make them different.  And by
running this, you can now see that
we have two texts and they go from top
to bottom, that's why we set the
column orientation.  If
we set our orientation as
row, then they would go from left to
right along our window.
Very good.  So, next,
I want to create a group with two buttons.
Um, I want to make sure the column
is set up for my window, so
everything goes from top to bottom.  The
text will be a secondary element of
the window and now I want to create a
group.  A group is where we place
multiple interface elements and
basically have a
column or row configuration within a column
.  So, if I just say that the group
is equal to my window, we're going to add
a group, of indefinite size, and the
group name doesn't matter.  We can
leave it blank.  Then we're going to say
group.orientation.  Even though the
group is inside the window, it
can also have its own
orientation, which I will set as a
row.  Now, let's create two buttons.  I'm going to
say that button one is a variable
equal to my group.add.  I'm going to add a
button to my group.  Instead of
adding it to our main window,
since our group is in our
main window, let's add
our button inside the group.
So, we'll say button,
indefinite size, and I'll say button one.  And then
I can copy and paste this line of
code.  I'll call this button two.
I'm changing the text.  Now, let's see what it looks like
.  So, you can now see that
we compared the code with the
actual appearance here.  We have a
column orientation set for the window.
Text comes first.  Then we have a
group that goes from left to right.  And
all the elements in that group are
buttons.  So, you can see that if
we change this to a column, everything in
our interface would continue to go
straight down.  Exactly like that.
So, we'll keep the
group in a line.  And now we're going to
add a couple more elements.  We're going
to add what's called a
drop-down list.  So, we'll just say
drop-down list.  And we're going to add
this to our window.  We'll say my
window.add.  And the text for this is
drop-down list, one word, all
lowercase.  And we'll say indefinite for
size.  And for this argument,
we need to provide a matrix.
A matrix is ​​basically a set
of values.  So, we can say that
the matrix is ​​equal to, uh, these
brackets here.  And basically
we can say test one, test two,
test three.  And each of these
elements is separated by a comma,
similar to our arguments here.  And
we can complete this as our
drop-down menu.  So, as you can
see here, when we click on the
drop-down menu, we have test one,
test two, and test three, because a
drop-down list requires an array
of items, or an array of names
in this case.  If we want to configure the
selection, because by default it is
blank, we can say that the selection
of the drop-down menu is equal to zero,
which means that it
will effectively select the first element of the
array.  In programming, when
referring to an array, if
you wanted to obtain a
specific element within the array, in
this case, if we said array zero,
this obtains the first one.  In
programming, for one reason or another
, everyone starts with zero in
arrays.  So, if I wanted to get
the first element, it would be element zero
.  If you want to get test two, the
second element is number one,
as the index is called.  And if
you want to get proof three, it's
index two.  So, that's why
we say the selection is equal to
zero, so we can select the
first item here.  Now, when we
run it, you can see that we have
our drop-down menu, which is
too small.  So, let's adjust
the size of our element.  This is
how you can change the size of
any of these
interface elements.  First, it calls the variable
and says point size.  And we're going to
set the size equal to an
array.  This matrix only needs two
values.  As you can see, this one here
has three values.  This matrix
needs two, a size X and a size
Y, or width and height.  So, I can
say maybe 120. Pixels are assumed.
120 pixels by 25. And we run this.
As you can see, it's a little longer.
Perhaps we can make it even longer
and leave it like that, like 180, and run
that.  So now we have a nice
long drop-down menu, and it selects
our items appropriately.
Let's create a couple more elements before we
program some actual functionality
for this script.  So, in addition to
this type of group, there is also a
type of panel, which is basically a
group with an outline, and also an
optional name.  So, I'll copy and
paste this group text, and we'll
call it panel.  I will change the
group addition to a panel.  And we can simply
call the text my panel.  Now, if
I run this, you can see that we have
a small empty box with my panel
as text.  Let's add a
radio button and a checkbox.
So, let's create a radio button.
We'll say radio is equal to what we're going to
add inside my panel with a frame
here.  panel.add radio button of
undefined size and we'll just
call it radio.  Next, we'll add a
checkbox.  We'll call
our panel.add checkbox. Let's add something
called checkbox, all
lowercase, undefined size, and
the text we'll call
checkbox.  Now we will proceed to
execute this.  You can immediately see
that we have a panel with a name,
our checkbox, and
our radio button.  Uh, let's proceed
to set the orientation as a row,
so they don't go from top to bottom.
We can say panel.  orientation
equals row and run this.  And now they
go from left to right.  So,
we have created most of the types
of elements.  There are two more that I want to
review, and I forgot the example for one of them,
which is a text editing box.
This is something that allows you to enter
text.  So, we can say
text box is equal to my window.  We're going to
add a text called "edit text", with an
indefinite size, and this will be the text
inside the box, my entry.    Let's
proceed to execute this.  You can
now see that we have a text box
that says "My Entry," and this will
allow you to enter text and retrieve it
from your user account.  Now, finally, let
's add a slider.  I'll just
say var slider.  Again,
remember that all these
variable names are arbitrary.  You can
call them whatever you want, a letter, a
name.  Uh, these are just for
storing the actual
interface elements that you can then change the
values ​​of and things like that.  So to
create a slider we'll say my
panel or sorry, my window .add and the
keyword here is
slider.  It's kind of undefined, and we don't
want any text with our
slider.  I will proceed to
execute this, and now we have a
slider from which, if
we wanted to obtain the value,
we could easily do so.
So, this is how we can create
a basic interface.  Again, this is
a floating interface, and these are the
basic types of elements you'll
want to create: text, buttons,
drop-down menus, radio and
check boxes, text inputs, and
sliders.  And there really isn't
much room for
custom interface elements in
scripting.  Everything is based on this
predefined set of elements
, and you can also use
images, which is a bit more
advanced.  Another quick trick I
wanted to show is how to manually add an
item to this
dropdown menu.  We already have three elements,
which I created with this arrangement
here.  If I wanted to add something
later, I could simply call up my
dropdown menu and say .add.  There are two
arguments for adding things to a
drop-down menu.  The first one is what we
want to add.  We want to add what's
called an element, and then
we want the text of the element.  So
we could say my extra element.
And now, we have this fourth element
that says my extra element.  That's just
one way to do it, if you want to
start manipulating these elements and
adding extra things to them.  Okay,
the next step is basically
to initialize some
real automation with these buttons we've created
.  We have button one and button two
.  First, we need to learn how to
basically detect when they are
activated.  When someone clicks the
button, how do we know?  So,
what we do to check it is
take the name of the
button variable, in this case button one, and
say .on click.  This is basically
an automatic detection of whenever they
click the button.  And what
we do is equate this to what is
called a function.  And this is the
keyword function, which is
basically just a block
containing a set of operations.
So, if we wanted, this
operation could be to change the
size of our composition.    It
could be a long series of
operations.  And then we have to put
parentheses after our
function.  And we put everything
within our function between these
keys.  So we have our button
one that we referred to.  Every time
we click on it, we want to
run this code from here.  If
you want, you can simply copy and
paste this part and reuse it as much as
you like, but basically we're
running what's called an
anonymous function.  We often name
functions in special ways such as
run operation or resize
comp.  In this case, it is anonymous.  It doesn't
have a name, but all the code
we put inside will run after
clicking button one.
So, if we want, we can do what's
called an alert message.
We can say alert and the argument that
this takes, what goes inside the
parentheses, is a string with the text
that we want to appear in the
alert message.  So you could say, "
Hi, you clicked on button one."  And
now, when I click on button
one, a pop-up window appears
saying, "Hello, you clicked on button
one."  This is how we know it
works.  We get this
alert message that says hello, uh, when
we click on this button one,
we know that this part of the code
actually works.  We can copy and
paste this, rename it to button
two and say: "Hello, you clicked on
button two."  So now we have one
operation for button one and one for
button two.  Obviously, making
a pop-up window appear is not
exactly what we want to do.  So let's
decide on some useful functions
that each of these buttons can
perform to learn the details of
the scripting guide and do
real scripting for After Effects, not just the
user interface part.
So, if we click on button
one, let's perform some operations on
a composition and on the layers within
it.  First, let's define a new
function.  Right here we have a
function that exists on its own.  But
, if you want to establish a function and
define it, we could say "function"
and then we must put the name of the
function.  We could say modify
layers.  And you can see this type of
format that I used.  The first word
is in lowercase and each
subsequent word begins with a capital letter.  Uh,
so, modifying layers and
compositions, something like that.  We could
simply say modify layers.
Again, we need the parentheses
and these braces to put everything inside
the function.  So, what we
want to do is that every time
we click on button one,
the code inside modify
layers will run.  To do this, instead of the
"you clicked button one" alert,
we're going to call this function.
Instead of defining it with the keyword
"function", we should simply call
the function name in
parentheses and end with a semicolon
.  If you hadn't noticed yet
, in JavaScript, you generally have to
end each line with a semicolon
.  If you hadn't noticed yet
, you need to add semicolons to the end
of most lines here in
JavaScript, although I already suspected that.
So, every time we click
button one, we will execute the function
called modify layers.  You can see that
when I highlight it, both are highlighted.
That means this is going to run
inside this.  And if we wanted,
we could add an alert in here
to warn us that we are
modifying layers.  So, if I press
button one, we're in
modifying layers.  So, let's modify
the composition and some layers.
How do we obtain the composition?  Well,
first, we should have some sort
of initial requirement for this script.
Let's say the initial requirement is that
the user already has a composition
open, selected, and at least one
layer inside.  What we could do is
check if they have an
open composition.  So let's do that first.
We're going to use what's called an
if statement.  We say whether some type of
operation is true or whether a
mathematical comparison is true,
run code or not.
So, if I put "if" in
parentheses, this is what we want to
analyze.  If I want to say if zero is
equal to zero, that's true.
So, whatever we put
inside the curly braces after that,
like in a function, is what will be
executed.  Some code to
run.  So, if this is
true, which it is, this will be
executed.  We could say if zero is
less than five, then execute this
code.  You could say if the letter A
is equal to the letter A, etc.  There are
many ways to do this.  And you can
even compare different types of
variables.  The reason I don't use
a single equal sign is because that's
for defining variables, as you may have
noticed here.  If we use one, it's to
set the variable.  If we use two of the
same type, it is to compare them after
having converted them to the same type.  If
you use three, this, for example, will be much
stricter, and this will still be
true.  But if I said something
different, it might not be true.  The reason we do
n't use an equal sign is
because an equal sign establishes the
value of a variable.  Two is what we
basically use to compare
most of the time.  So, what we're going
to check instead of
math, is whether there's an
active composition.  So this
will be our first part of
programming in After Effects.  We're going to
write "app", which refers to the
After Effects application, and ".project",
which refers to the currently open project
.  It doesn't have to be a
saved project.  It's simply whatever
is open in After Effects right now
.  And we're going to write "
.activeItem".  The active element is whatever
is selected.  If you had
something selected here, that could
be the active item.  We have a
selected composition right here.
That is the active element.  So
let's check if the active element
is null.  If the active element gives us
something undefined, erroneous, null, or zero,
this will be activated, which means it will
warn you that you do not have any
composition selected.  And then
we'll do what's called return false.
What it does is exit this function.    We do
n't want them to skip this function
if they don't have a
selected composition.  So, we can say
if app.project.activeItem is null,
alert that there is no
selected composition.  Let's run it.
Let's make sure we don't have anything
selected and then run it.  Now
you know that we don't have any
selected composition.  If
I select a composition, you can see
that nothing happens.  We haven't
scheduled the case for that yet.  Perhaps
there's a bit more logic we
should add here.  We can add
multiple statements to compare
several things and see if they are true.  So
we are currently checking,
is this equal to null? Is the
active element null?  We can also say "or"
, which are two vertical bars like
these.  We can also say "and", which
are two ampersands.  We could say if
there is no null object and zero is equal to
zero, or if app.project.activeItem is
equal to null or zero is equal to zero.  What we're going
to say is "or"
app.project.activeItem, the same thing.  We're going
to check if it's an instance of,
which basically checks the type of
variable it is, a comp item.  Now
, the comp item is predefined in
After Effects scripts to
tell you what a composition is.
So, let's check if it's equal
to zero, if there's nothing active, and if it's
a composition.  But we want
to verify if it is not a composition.
So we can enclose all this
logic in parentheses and put an
exclamation mark in front of it to
reverse it.  So, this now says
that it is not a composition.  So
now we know for sure that they have
a composition.  We can move on from the
if statement.  If they do not have a
selected composition, they will not get past
this part of the code.  Therefore
, you won't see all of this below if you do
n't have an active composition.
Now, let's create a variable to
store that composition.  We know we have
one, so we say that
composition equals
app.project.activeItem.  If I wanted,
I could get the
composition name, alert composition.name.
You can see that the name here matches
exactly.  Now, let's create a
variable to store this layer here.
So I'll say var layer.  And how do
we get the cape?  Well, first
we must refer to a composition.
We have one that we just saved.  And
we can say layer and the
layer index, which is basically shown right
here.  This is the exact index.  If
we had, say, six layers, this
would be index six, index one,
two, three, and so on.  So we'll say
layer one.  Now, we can say alert
layer.name.  You can see that
we now get the layer name, which
includes this path from here.  Now,
we have the layer in a variable.  If
you just said "layer," you'd see that it's
not just the name.  It is an
AV layer object, which has many
properties and things that we can adjust
.  If you wanted, you could start
looking inside the script.  If you were to say, "
Okay, I'm looking at an AV layer element or
a layer element."  You could go to the
layer object and this will tell us everything
associated with layers.  We have auto
orient.  Point comment.  Point containing
composition.  Has video or not?  The
layer ID.  The index.  The
entry point.  All these
properties and even more methods
that would do things like add
animated graphics templates and
many others.  So, what
useful things can we do with this layer?  Let's go
ahead and adjust, say, the
position and the scale.  These people who are
here.  We can access these
properties and even apply
keyframes or change the values
ourselves.  So, the way we
do it is by first changing the
position.  So, we'll say layer and
we want to get the property, and the
property needs a string.
Normally we could just say
position.  Get the property called
position.  But this won't work in
all languages.  I want to make sure
this works in all languages,
which makes it a little more complicated.
In the first property, we need to
say ADBE, short for Adobe,
transformation group.  This
basically means the
actual transformation group, which contains
opacity, scale, position, and all that.
First we want to refer to this.  An
Adobe transformation group with
this text here is called a
match name.  This will work in
any language and does not depend on whether the
meaning of your language, transform,
actually means transformation in
English.  So we want to refer
to the transformation group and then to
the property within it called
Adobe position.  This is how we can
refer to the actual position.
So if you want, you can write
dot value.  And if we enclose this in
parentheses, we could alert him.
What is the value of the position?
You can see that it's 960, 540 and 0, XYZ.  It
's not a 3D layer, but it still contains the
Z position. So we can read the
value.  We can also set the
value.  If I want, I can remove this
alert, so we only have layer.
transform group.position Instead of
dot value, let's say dot set value.
Now, since it has multiple
dimensions, X and Y, we need to give it
an array to indicate X and Y.
Do you remember how we defined our
dropdown menu size with X and Y?
We can do the same here.    We
simply give it an array with an
X and Y value for our position.    Let
's say 2,000 times 2,000.  Now we can
move forward and implement this.
Press button one.  And now our
layer has gone far away, but that's because the
position has been set at 2,000
by 2,000.  So now our
button is actually starting to have
functionality, which is great.    Let
's copy and paste this line of
code and change Adobe position to
Adobe scale.  The scale also has X
and Y coordinates. So instead of 2,000, we could set it to
perhaps 200 by 200.
Now, if we didn't want to use this
position, we could delete it or
we could comment it out, which
simply means putting two slashes before
it.  This means it's like a
personal comment.  This code will not
execute.  So now we can
perform the scaling operation.
Undo that and run the
scale operation, which will expand it to 200%.  So let's
change this
position algorithm to 1,000 by 1,000 to make it
less drastic.  What else
can we do now?  If we wanted,
we could copy and paste this once
more, and change it to Adobe opacity.  And
instead of setting the value,
let's set the expression.  Let's say
point expression is equal to,
we will put our expression in single quotes
.  We'll just say wiggle (2, 30)
.  That's our expression in
single quotes.  When we run
this, you can see that if we simply press
play, our opacity
now oscillates because we have an
expression applied to it.  Well, those
are the basics for accessing
your layer, changing its position,
scale, different properties, and
adding an expression to something.  Now,
let's adjust the size of our
composition.  Let's say that
composition.width is equal to, perhaps,
500. Then we can say that
composition.height is equal to 1,000.  If
we run this, you can now see that
our composition has been
resized, control K, to 500 by
1000, just as we defined.  If you wanted
, we could also change the name
of our composition by saying dot
name equals my
renamed composition.  Run this, and it will now
rename our composition.
So, those are just a couple of
ways you can change
properties, add expressions, and
things like that.  And you can read about
all the available things you
can access and change, of course,
within the scripting guide.
So, if we go and find comp
item, we can check the
active camera, background color,
counters, display start time
, frame mix
, frame duration, layers
, markers,
motion blur;  so many things you
can access.  The last thing I want to
do with this first button is add
an effect to our layer.  So I'm going to
create a variable to hold that
effect, and I'll simply call it my
effect.  We're going to set this equal to
my layer, and we'll say dot effects, in all
caps.  And we'll say point add
property.  We're going to add a property
, and the name of this property should
be the matching name of the
effect.  Let's say I want to add an
exposure effect; the
effect name is Exposure, but the
matching name is Adobe Exposure 2.
I know this will work because when
I click the button and look at my
layer, I now have an
exposure effect applied.  Let's proceed to
change the exposure value itself
.  Similar to how we access this
layer, we said layer index one,
we can also do the same with the
properties.  In this case, it seems that
the exposure property in the
exposure effects property is
one, two, three.  To check this, I
could simply say alert my
effects.property three.  And we want to know
what the name of property three is
.  So we can raise the alarm.  It says "
exhibition," which is the name of that
property.  Perfect.  And you can see that
now we have to undo this a
lot of times.  One thing we can
do to avoid this is to surround all
the code we want to undo in one
click with a little bit of code.  Look at
this.  You can say, app.begin undo
group, and then in the parentheses we'll
give it a name.  We'll call it my
process.  This will appear at the top in
undo editing, and we can undo
a specific custom name or
set of operations here.  And at the
end of all our code, we can
say, app.end undo group.  And this will
basically allow us to undo
everything with a single click.  So, if I
return my composition to its
original state, run the script, and press
button one, you'll see that we've performed
several operations.  We've added an
effect, we've changed sizes, but
if I press control Z now, it goes back to the
beginning of everything.  So, we can
undo a lot of things with this
single undo operation or click.
Finally, let's change the value of this
exposure effect.  We discovered that it
was property number three.  So
, my effect.property three, and we're going to
set the value, in the same way
that we set the value of our
scale, we're going to set the value of
our exposure, which is just a
value.  It doesn't have an X and a Y. So
, let's adjust it to two.  We will execute
this.  Apply.  And now
our exposure value has increased to two.  And
then, of course, you could also
use expressions or whatever you want on
all these properties in the same
way we did above.  Okay,
to finish the
learning section of this tutorial, the
coding section, let's
add some functionality to button
number two here.  Specifically,
let's learn how to import a file
from our computer and then
add it to the timeline.  So
, we have our code here.
It says alert, you pressed button two.
What will our role be called
here?  We'll just say import and add.    It's
not the best name, but we'll
import it into the project and then
add it to a layer.  So,
we will define this import and
add function.  Now, first let's create an
object that represents a file.  The
way we do that is simply
by creating a variable.  I'll tell you my
video file and we'll match it to a
file.  And then, in parentheses, is
the path to this very file.  In my
video folder, I have a
video file called test.  So, the
way we can reference
any of our folders,
we can say videos with this tilde
here  videos.  Or if you're on a
Mac, that's  movies.  Or
you can say documents, photos, videos,
downloads.  Downloads is a very
common folder.  But in this case, I want to
get my videos back.  And it's called test.mp
4. Something we can do to ensure
that the file where we put the code
is correct, exists and works when
imported, is to write alert my video
file.exists.  Exists will tell us true or
false depending on whether the file
exists.  In this case, true.  Yes, it
exists.  So now that we know it
exists, let's import it.  When
we import something, it will return an
object, which means it
will store it in a variable.  We can
say video item.  This will represent the
video once we have imported it
here.  This element here will represent it
.  So we'll say that video item
is equal to app.project, our
current After Effects project, dot
import file.  Now, inside the
parentheses of import file,
we must first create what is called a group
of import options.  So we can
write new space import options.  And in
another aside, we'll send you our
file.  If you want to see this in more
detail in the guide, just type dot
import file.  And if you check a couple,
you can see a code example.  This
is exactly what we are doing
here.  app.project.importFile, some
new import options, which usually
allow you to define things like import
as a sequence, alphabetically, and all
that.  In this case, it doesn't really matter
.  And here it provides a new file,
but we already have one defined, so we
just put it here.  So, if
I run this, and press button two,
you'll see that test.mp 4 is imported into my
project.  Now, how do we add it to
our composition?  We're simply going
to reference our composition,
app.project.activeItem.layers,
reference all the layers inside, and
say add.  What are we going to add in
the parentheses?  Our video item that we just
imported.  So, when you
run this, it will import our
file and, if we have a composition
selected, it will add it inside
it.  If you don't have a composition
selected, as is the case now, it won't
add it, but it will import it.
Now, one last thing I'm going to go
over is the use of loops to
perform multiple operations at once.
If I wanted to add this layer about 100
times, I could do it with a
simple operation.
We simply say for.  It's called a for loop.  And
then we enclose the operation that we
want to repeat many times between
these brackets.  Inside the
parentheses, we will create a
temporary variable called I, and set this equal
to zero.  Then we will say that I is less
than, perhaps, 100. Then we say I
++.  This is a very common way to
iterate things in JavaScript for
beginners who don't know what a
for loop is.  Basically, we define a
temporary variable and go one by one,
I++, from zero to 100, which will execute
this operation about 100 times.
So, if I run this, I should
import it once and then add the
layer 100 times to my composition.  As
you can see, it only takes one second, but
in, I don't know, 3 seconds, we added 100
layers.  And think about how many other
automated operations could be
applied to so many different layers.  And that
's pretty much it for the
basic programming part of this
tutorial.  The last thing I wanted to
talk about is what to do next if you're
just starting out with programming or
want to take the next steps to
really learn and get involved in
scripting.  Although I didn't do it much in
this tutorial, refer to the guide very
often because it's your best friend.  As
soon as you start to understand the
language this is written in,
how to quickly navigate through it, and
learn all the
supported functions and how to access
different parts of After Effects with
scripting, it becomes very powerful and
you can learn a lot in a short amount of
time.  You can also watch more videos
.  I have playlists on my
channel with hundreds of
scripting videos, quick tips, and
long videos on how to do
specific things, how to fix bugs,
specific features,
complete projects, and coding challenges.    You
can also join Discord, where
many people help each other and we continually
learn things from one another and
recommend new things to try.
Now, if you want to continue learning
scripting but don't know how, choose a
goal or a great project idea you
have and do what's necessary to
learn every little step along the
way to achieving it.  For example, if
you wanted to learn how to create a
presentation generator, well, what do
you need to do?  First, you need to
learn how to import images into
After Effects.  Next, you need to
learn how to create a composition with
the right sizes and duration.
Next, you need to learn how to add
audio, perhaps adjust the volume,
change properties, etc.  And as you learn
each step, each small function
will begin to add up until you
fully understand the language.  But that's
all for this video, guys.
I hope they have.  enjoyed.  If
so, hit the thumbs up button
below, subscribe, and turn on notifications
to receive updates on
new videos every week on the channel.
You can see this code in the description via
the GitHub link.
Try it yourselves, make
modifications, and continue with your
learning.  Be sure to follow us
there for code updates and
, in the description, follow us on
Instagram for other
live updates.  If you're not already a member of
our Discord server, you can
join to help us with scripts,
extensions, plugins, submit
tutorial ideas, and much more.  And if you'd like to
support us on YouTube, you can become a
member, contributor,
premium contributor, or VIP to get
great perks, Discord status,
VIP tutorials, and early access to the code.    You
can also find us on Adobe
Exchange and A Scripts to help us
move forward and check out some
interesting products there as well.  Thanks
again for watching the video.  See you next time
.